let's say this beaker full of very warm
water is a source of heat here's a
special type of engine a Stirling engine
named after the Stirling Brothers who
invented it got a patent in 1807 the
heat from this water is warming the
bottom plate of this engine give it a
little nudge the engine will run now
notice there are two Pistons there's
this little one up here the primary then
there's this big one down here the
secondary and as the heat from this
water warms the bottom plate it makes
the air expand the expanding air drives
the piston so this is a way to convert
the energy of heat into what we call
mechanical work or making something spin
and the extraordinary thing about
Stirling engines is they're so efficient
it's just a little bit of hot water and
look how fast it's making the wheel go
now watch what happens when we take the
same Stirling engine running clockwise
and put it on another beaker but this
one's full of ice water in just a few
seconds the Stirling engine will slow
down because it's lost its source of
heat from the bottom but now it will run
the other way from the ice so there's an
old joke in science a thermos bottle
keeps cold things cold and hot things
hot how does it know oh the reason it
knows is because in a sense in science
there's no such thing as cold there's
only the absence of heat so this is
still a heat engine and it's running off
of heat but the source of heat now is
the room the air in this room is warming
the top plate and heat is now flowing
down through the engine instead of up
through the engine as it was over on the
source of hot water
now Stirling engines have been proposed
for all sorts of things in the early
1800s they were used to pump water all
over the place people have talked about
putting them in cars again but the
tricky thing about a Stirling engine
they're hard to speed up and slow down
the great thing about a car engine is
you can speed up and slow down very
easily you've probably heard of a diesel
engine that seemed after a guy named
diesel who invented the process then
your car that runs off gasoline has the
auto engine OTO another German scientist
there's all sorts of heat engines
there's the wad engine the Rankine
engine the Brayton engine the atkinson
engine and they're all different
arrangements of pistons and valves to
convert heat into mechanical work it
could be that the Stirling engine is
going to make a big comeback because
it's so efficient and maybe you'll be
the scientist or engineer who finds a
way to use it in extremely important
applications you could dare I say it
change the world